WIP:  React Week 1 - Hooks (#731)
Ada-Developers-Academy/textbook-curriculum: React/events.md

> React supplies support on many different events. We'll focus on a few of the common events, keyboard and click, but just know that you should reference the [full list](https://reactjs.org/docs/events.html#supported-events) if you want more information.

Reviewer: Do you think it'd be worth adding screenshots to show how the website is changing as we make these changes? 
Our lessons aren't consistent about whether or not we do that, so I definitely don't think it's essential. It just occurred to me it's hard to follow what's happening in this lesson without seeing the visual changes. But maybe the expectation is that the student/teacher is following along with their own react project.

Author: I think the expectation is that the teacher is doing this along with the student, and it's hard to see the result because this lesson is based on events, but I can add a pair of'em.

Author: And done

### Context

In this lecture, we are going to expand upon the `Student` component that we created in the [state lecture](state.md). This was a great component that we created that was storing a student's present status in the component. We used the boolean in the function to determine what to display.

### Adding More Meaning

#### Toggle our Boolean

The boolean value that we're storing in the state seems a little bit useless right now. We set it to `true` as an initial value and we don't ever change it! We have a button and it doesn't do anything!  Next we will add code to change the state of `present` when the button is clicked on.

### onClick Event

Now we'll add the `onClick` attribute to the button whose value will refer to an event handler function that we will create next.

```javascript
// src/components/Student.js
// ...

// Function to toggle present

> const onButtonClick = () => onButtonClick(!present);

Reviewer: Should this be calling `setPresent`?
```suggestion
const onButtonClick = () => setPresent(!present);
```

  // Component functions always return JSX

>   return (

Reviewer: I think it'd be helpful if we included the component definition for this code snippet so the context of the return is clear.
It took me a while to understand where this code was meant to fit in. (Even though in retrospect I do see you have a comment at the top to clarify that.

Author: done

**1.  Convert `fullName` from using props to state.**

This will require you to use `useState` a second time to set the student's fullName in state.  Then make sure it renders in the browser.

**2.  Add an input field with the value of the `fullName`**

Now we can add an input field and assign it the value of our `fullName` state variable.

```javascript
return (
    <div>
      <h3>{fullName}</h3>
      <input value={fullName} />
      <ul>
   ...
```

Notice however that changing the input doesn't change how `fullName` displays in the `h3` tag.  We need to add an `onChange` event handler to set the state when the input changes.

**3.  Make the state change when the input changes**

Next we will add an event handler function to change the state of `fullName` when the method is called.

```javascript
const onFullNameInputChange = (event) => {
  setFullName(event.target.value);
};
```

Pay attention to the way we've named this callback. Starting event handler names with `on` is a standard convention, and lets other programmers know your intent. The name also gives information about:

- What event happened (`change`)
- Which DOM element was the target of the event (the name input)

> Next, we'll need to add the event handler function that our code will be called when the input is edited.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, we'll need to add a call to the event handler we just wrote.
```

### onClick Event

Now we'll add the `onClick` attribute to the button whose value will refer to an event handler function that we will create next.

```javascript
// src/components/Student.js
const Student = (props) => {

  const [present, setPresent] = useState(props.present);
  const [fullName, setFullName] = useState(props.fullName);

  // Function to toggle present
  const onButtonClick = () => setPresent(!present);

    // Component functions always return JSX
    return (
      <div>
        <h3>{props.fullName}</h3>
        <ul>
          <li>Class: C13</li>
          <li>Birthday: {props.birthday}</li>
          <li>Email: {props.email}</li>
        </ul>
        <button onClick={onButtonClick}>
          Mark {present ? 'Absent' : 'Present'}
        </button>
      </div>
    );
}
```

**Pause here** for a moment with the person sitting next to you. What is this code doing? Refer back to the [state lecture](state.md) if you can't remember what the `setPresent` function is supposed to do.

> **Note** the arrow function syntax for this event handler function. You could define the event handler function `onButtonClick` as a regular function, but making it an arrow function in this case is a bit more condense and keeps the `this` context to the current component.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Note** the arrow function syntax for this event handler function. You could define the event handler function `onButtonClick` as a regular function, but making it an arrow function in this case is a bit more concise and keeps the `this` context to the current component.  
```

Reviewer 2: Note: `this` is far less meaningful when using hooks instead of classes and may not be worth mentioning here.

Now whenever the user clicks on the button the student's present state toggles between true and false!

![before and after click demo](images/state-before-after.png)

**Questions**:
1. Based on the code above, what is the name of the function that we want to create to handle the event when this button is clicked?
2. Is the function being **called** when it is tied to the event?

This function is not called immediately instead it is passed into the button to be called when click events occur.  This type of function is termed a _callback function_ that won't be executed until the event occurs. This is the same for all events defined here in our React components.

### onClick with an anynomous function

You can also define the function directly in the JSX with an anynomous function like:

```javascript
<button onClick={() => onButtonClick(!present)}>
        Mark {present ? 'Absent' : 'Present'}
      </button>
```

#### Change the Name

Another variable that we store is the name. Unfortunately right now, we are passing the `fullName` from props and we **cannot** change the value of our props.  

> **1.  Convert `fullName` from using props to state.**

Reviewer 2: Maybe make this an H5?

```suggestion
##### 1.  Convert `fullName` from using props to state.
```
